# Data-Warehousing-and-Business-Intelligence-Project
European Union GDP till 2019

European Union’s (EU) Gross Domestic Product (GDP) is dependent on many countries and it represents 30.24 percent of world’s economy. The European union plays important part in nominal terms and purchasing power parity (PPP). Also, EU is the home of many well-known companies. These companies are major source of employment within EU and contributes in growth of overall GDP of EU. This project provides in depth information about how the population is related to employment rate in the EU countries and the debt vs GDP of E.U. countries, as in 2018 the public debt was 80 percent of total GDP of EU and gives insight of the sector wise revenue generated by respective member country of E.U.

European Union’s economy reflects the sum of economies of 28 member countries of EU. The sum of these countries economy makes European union second largest economy in the world after USA securing 18.8 trillion US dollars in 2018 which is 22 percent of the total world’s economy. Also 19 members out of 28 members of European Union uses euro currency which makes It second largest reserve and trade currency after the U.S. Dollars. the euro is the official currency of 25 countries officially or de facto. This project aims at creating the data warehouse and extracting the important insights about the factors behind the EU GDP. It applies the concepts of data warehouse, SQL, Dimensional modelling while extracting the knowledge through the dashboard in the form of visualizations. The downloaded dataset is from different sources and examined the relationship between the debt and GDP, population and employment rate and the revenue generated by different sectors of industries of EU in each country.

The analysis done in this project are:

(Req-1) GDP vs Debt of each country Struggling economy may cause due to national dept in general. But Higher the GDP country have, lower the dept rate is, except the Italy and France.

(Req-2) Total Employees vs percent of population The aim is to find about the European population vs the employees’ percentage of each country. Italy and France have the
highest population but the low employee rate.

(Req-3) Sector Wise Revenue by each country This shows the analysis of revenues generated from different sector of industry of each EU country in 2019.

Sources of data used in the project

1st. Source Type Brief Summary
--Financial Times Unstructured This website has open source data of top 1000 emerging companies of EU. I scrapped the data using R

2nd Data Sources Kaggle Structured 
--It contains population rate with the country code and economy rate of each country

3rd Statista Structured 
--Contains the data about the debt rate in relation to GDP of each country of EU.
